INTERNATIONAL 
GCSE
Business (9-1)
SPECIFICATION
Pearson Edexcel International GCSE in Business (4BS1)
For first teaching September 2017
First examination June 2019
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL GCSE 
Business 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SPECIFICATION 
Pearson Edexcel International GCSE in Business (4BS1) 
 
 
For first teaching in September 2017 
First examination June 2019 
 
 
 
Edexcel, BTEC and LCCI qualifications 
Edexcel, BTEC and LCCI qualifications are awarded by Pearson, the UK’s largest awarding 
body offering academic and vocational qualifications that are globally recognised and 
benchmarked. For further information, please visit our qualifications website at 
qualifications.pearson.com. Alternatively, you can get in touch with us using the details on 
our contact us page at qualifications.pearson.com/contactus 
About Pearson 
Pearson is the world's leading learning company, with 35,000 employees in more than 
70 countries working to help people of all ages to make measurable progress in their lives 
through learning. We put the learner at the centre of everything we do, because wherever 
learning flourishes, so do people. Find out more about how we can help you and your 
learners at qualifications.pearson.com 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Acknowledgements 
This specification has been produced by Pearson on the basis of consultation with teachers, 
examiners, consultants and other interested parties. Pearson would like to thank all those 
who contributed their time and expertise to the specification’s development. 
 
 
References to third party material made in this specification are made in good faith. Pearson 
does not endorse, approve or accept responsibility for the content of materials, which may 
be subject to change, or any opinions expressed therein. (Material may include textbooks, 
journals, magazines and other publications and websites.) 
 
All information in this specification is correct at time of going to publication. 
 
ISBN 978 1 446 94276 5 
All the material in this publication is copyright 
© Pearson Education Limited 2016 
 
 
 
Contents 
1 
About this specification 
1 
Specification updates 
1 
Using this specification 
1 
Qualification aims and objectives 
2 
Why choose Edexcel qualifications? 
3 
Why choose the Pearson Edexcel International GCSE in 
Business? 
4 
Supporting you in planning and implementing this qualification 
5 
Qualification at a glance 
6 
Paper overview 
6 
2 
Business content 
7 
Course structure 
8 
Paper 1 and Paper 2 
9 
3 
Assessment information 
21 
Assessment requirements 
21 
Assessment objectives and weightings 
22 
Relationship of assessment objectives to units 
22 
4 
Administration and general information 
23 
Entries 
23 
Access arrangements, reasonable adjustments, special 
consideration and malpractice 
23 
Language of assessment 
23 
Access arrangements 
24 
Reasonable adjustments 
24 
Special consideration 
24 
Further information 
24 
Malpractice 
25 
Candidate malpractice 
25 
Staff/centre malpractice 
25 
Awarding and reporting 
25 
Student recruitment and progression 
26 
Prior learning and other requirements 
26 
Progression 
26 
 
 
Appendices 
27 
Appendix 1: Codes 
29 
Appendix 2: Command word taxonomy 
31 
Appendix 3: Quantitative skills 
33 
Appendix 4: Formulae 
35 
Appendix 5: Calculators 
37 
Appendix 6: Glossary of International Accounting Standards 
(IAS) terminology 
39 
Appendix 7: Pearson World Class Qualification design principles 41 
Appendix 8: Transferable skills 
43 
Appendix 9: Glossary 
45 
 
 
Pearson Edexcel International GCSE in Business – Specification – 
Issue 1 – November 2016 © Pearson Education Limited 2016 
1 
1 About this specification 
The Pearson Edexcel International GCSE in Business is part of a suite of International GCSE 
qualifications offered by Pearson. 
This qualification is not accredited or regulated by any UK regulatory body. 
This specification includes the following key features. 
Structure: the Pearson Edexcel International GCSE in Business is a linear qualification. It 
consists of two examinations that must be taken in the same series at the end of the course 
of study. 
Content: relevant, engaging and up to date. 
Assessment: two examinations with questions designed to differentiate students of 
all abilities. 
Approach: independent learning, critical-thinking skills, real-life examples. 
Specification updates 
This specification is Issue 1 and is valid for the Edexcel International GCSE examination 
from June 2019. If there are any significant changes to the specification, Pearson will inform 
centres. Changes will also be posted on our website. 
For more information please visit qualifications.pearson.com 
Using this specification 
This specification has been designed to give guidance to teachers and to encourage effective 
delivery of the qualification. The following information will help you get the most out of the 
content and guidance. 
Compulsory content: as a minimum, all the bullet points in the content must be taught. 
The word ‘including’ in the content specifies the detail of what must be covered. 
Assessments: use a range of material and are not limited to the examples given. 
Teachers should deliver the qualification using a good range of examples to support the 
assessment of the content. 
Depth and breadth of content: teachers should use the full range of content and all the 
assessment objectives given in Section 2: Subject Content. 
The Pearson Edexcel International GCSE in Business is designed for use in schools and 
colleges. It is part of a suite of International GCSE qualifications offered by Pearson. 
The Pearson Edexcel International GCSE in Business is designed as a two-year course. 
As students progress through the course they are introduced to new ideas and concepts 
while continuing to use and reinforce previously learned concepts and skills. The course is 
designed to give students a sound understanding of business, and the ability to use 
knowledge, skills and understanding appropriately in the context of individual countries and 
the global economy. 
 
Pearson Edexcel International GCSE in Business – Specification 
Issue 1 – November 2016 © Pearson Education Limited 2016 
2
Qualification aims and objectives 
The Pearson Edexcel International GCSE in Business qualification enables students to: 
• develop an interest in and enthusiasm for the study of business 
• develop an understanding of business concepts, business terminology,  
business objectives and the integrated nature of business activity 
• understand how the main types of business are organised, financed and operated 
• develop and apply knowledge, understanding and skills to contemporary business issues 
in a wide range of businesses from small enterprises to large multinationals and 
businesses operating in local, national and global context 
• develop critical-thinking and enquiry skills to distinguish between facts and opinion, 
calculating, interpreting and evaluating business data, to help build arguments and make 
informed judgements 
• develop an understanding of the dynamics of business activity and the related 
considerations of ethics and sustainability for global businesses. 
 
Pearson Edexcel International GCSE in Business – Specification – 
Issue 1 – November 2016 © Pearson Education Limited 2016 
3 
Why choose Edexcel qualifications? 
Pearson – the world’s largest education company 
Edexcel academic qualifications are from Pearson, the UK’s largest awarding organisation. 
With over 3.4 million students studying our academic and vocational qualifications 
worldwide, we offer internationally recognised qualifications to schools, colleges and 
employers globally. 
Pearson is recognised as the world’s largest education company, allowing us to drive 
innovation and provide comprehensive support for Edexcel students to acquire the 
knowledge and skills they need for progression in study, work and life. 
A heritage you can trust 
The background to Pearson becoming the UK’s largest awarding organisation began in 1836, 
when a royal charter gave the University of London its first powers to conduct exams and 
confer degrees on its students. With over 150 years of international education experience, 
Edexcel qualifications have firm academic foundations, built on the traditions and rigour 
associated with Britain’s educational system. 
Results you can trust 
Pearson’s leading online marking technology has been shown to produce exceptionally 
reliable results, demonstrating that at every stage, Edexcel qualifications maintain the 
highest standards. 
Developed to Pearson’s world-class qualifications standards 
Pearson’s world-class standards mean that all Edexcel qualifications are developed to be 
rigorous, demanding, inclusive and empowering. We work collaboratively with a panel of 
educational thought leaders and assessment experts to ensure that Edexcel qualifications 
are globally relevant, represent world-class best practice and maintain a 
consistent standard. 
For more information on the World Class Qualification design principles please go to 
Appendix 7 or visit our website: uk.pearson.com/world-class-qualifications 
 
Pearson Edexcel International GCSE in Business – Specification 
Issue 1 – November 2016 © Pearson Education Limited 2016 
4
Why choose the Pearson Edexcel International 
GCSE in Business? 
We have listened to feedback from all parts of the international subject community. Based 
on that feedback, we have made changes that will engage students and give them 
opportunities to gain skills that will support progression to further study of business, and to 
enhance their educational or employment prospects. 
The content and assessment approach for this qualification has been designed to meet 
students’ needs in the following ways. 
Two-paper assessment – a new, two-paper model gives students better opportunities to 
focus on real-life business scenarios covering small and large businesses. We will test 
knowledge, understanding, analytical and evaluation skills around five sections: 
Business Activity and Influences on Business, People in Business, Business Finance, 
Marketing and Business Operations. 
Concepts and content – the content in both Paper 1: Investigating small businesses and 
Paper 2: Investigating large businesses is engaging and accessible for all students. 
The content is appropriate and relevant for progression. It is appropriate for international 
students, building understanding and awareness of business concepts and applying them to 
real-life scenarios. The content develops students’ ability to participate effectively in global 
society as citizens, producers and consumers. 
Clear and straightforward question papers – our question papers are clear and 
accessible for students of all ability ranges. Our mark schemes are straightforward so that 
the assessment requirements are clear. 
Broad and deep development of skills – the design of the revised International GCSE 
aims to extend students’ knowledge by broadening and deepening skills, for example 
students will develop the ability to: 
• read sources to interpret and evaluate business information 
• write extended responses 
• respond appropriately to a range of question types, including multiple-choice, 
short-answer, data-response and open-ended questions 
• develop an understanding of business concepts and apply these concepts to 
real-life situations. 
Progression to A Level – International GCSEs enable successful progression to Level 3 
qualifications (such as the International A Level in Business) and beyond, in business and 
other subjects. Through our world-class qualification development process, we have 
consulted international business teaching experts to validate this qualification and endorse 
its content, skills development and assessment structure. 
 
Pearson Edexcel International GCSE in Business – Specification – 
Issue 1 – November 2016 © Pearson Education Limited 2016 
5 
Supporting you in planning and implementing 
this qualification 
Planning 
• Our Getting Started Guide gives you an overview of the Pearson Edexcel International 
GCSE in Business to help you understand the changes to content and assessment, and to 
help you understand what these changes mean for you and your students. 
• We will provide you with a course planner and schemes of work. 
• Our mapping documents highlight key differences between the new and 
legacy qualifications. 
Teaching and learning 
• Our skills maps will highlight opportunities for students to develop skills that are 
assessed, as well as skills that are not directly assessed. 
• Print and digital learning and teaching resources promote ‘any time, any place’ learning to 
improve student motivation and encourage new ways of working. 
Preparing for exams 
We will also provide a range of resources to help you prepare your students for the 
assessments, including: 
• specimen papers to support formative assessments and mock exams 
• examiner commentaries following each examination series. 
ResultsPlus 
ResultsPlus provides the most detailed analysis available of your students’ exam 
performance. It can help you identify the topics and skills where further learning would 
benefit your students. 
examWizard 
A free online resource designed to support students and teachers with exam preparation 
and assessment. 
Training events 
In addition to online training, we host a series of training events each year for teachers to 
deepen their understanding of our qualifications. 
Get help and support 
Our Subject Advisor service ensures that you receive help and guidance from us. You can 
sign up to receive updates at qualifications.pearson.com/en/subjects/business 
or email 'sign me up' to teachingbusiness@pearson.com 
 
Pearson Edexcel International GCSE in Business – Specification 
Issue 1 – November 2016 © Pearson Education Limited 2016 
6
Qualification at a glance 
Paper overview 
Paper 1: Investigating small businesses 
*Paper code 4BS1/01 
• Externally assessed 
• Availability: June 
• First assessment: June 2019 
50% of the total 
International GCSE 
Content summary 
This paper will draw on topics taken from the whole of the subject content. The question 
scenarios are based on a small business – up to 49 employees. 
Assessment 
Examination of 1 hour and 30 minutes, consisting of four compulsory questions,  
each worth 20 marks – total of 80 marks in Paper 1. The sub-questions are a mixture of 
multiple-choice, short-answer, data-response and open-ended questions. 
Calculators may be used in the examination. Information on the use of calculators during 
the examinations for this qualification can be found in Appendix 5. 
 
Paper 2: Investigating large businesses 
*Paper code 4BS1/02 
• Externally assessed 
• Availability: June 
• First assessment: June 2019 
50% of the total 
International GCSE 
Content summary 
This paper will draw on topics taken from the whole of the subject content. The question 
scenarios are based on a large business – more than 250 employees. 
Assessment 
Examination of 1 hour and 30 minutes, consisting of four compulsory questions,  
each worth 20 marks – total of 80 marks in Paper 2. The sub-questions are a mixture of 
multiple-choice, short-answer, data-response and open-ended questions. 
Calculators may be used in the examination. Information on the use of calculators during 
the examinations for this qualification can be found in Appendix 5. 
 
* See Appendix 1 for a description of this code and all the other codes relevant to this 
qualification. 
 
 
Pearson Edexcel International GCSE in Business – Specification – 
Issue 1 – November 2016 © Pearson Education Limited 2016 
7 
2 Business content 
1 – Business activity and influences on business 
This section covers the various objectives of a business, changing business environments 
and the criteria for judging success. The focus is on the importance of having clear business 
objectives and how the business environment provides opportunities for, and imposes 
constraints on, the pursuit of these objectives. 
2 – People in business 
This section looks at people in organisations, focusing on their roles, relationships and 
management in business. 
3 – Business finance 
This section explores the use of accounting and financial information as an aid to 
decision making. 
4 – Marketing 
This section focuses on identifying and satisfying customer needs in a changing and 
competitive international environment. 
5 – Business operations 
This section examines the way organisations use and manage resources to produce goods 
and services. 
 
Pearson Edexcel International GCSE in Business – Specification 
Issue 1 – November 2016 © Pearson Education Limited 2016 
8
 
Course structure 
• The Pearson Edexcel International GCSE in Business comprises two examinations. 
• The Pearson Edexcel International GCSE in Business is a linear qualification. 
All examinations must be taken in the terminal series at the end of the course of study. 
 
 
Pearson Edexcel International GCSE in Business – Specification – 
Issue 1 – November 2016 © Pearson Education Limited 2016 
9 
Paper 1 and Paper 2 
Externally assessed 
Description 
 
 
Students need to demonstrate specified knowledge and critical 
understanding of the following sections: 
1. 
Business activity and influences on business 
2. 
People in business 
3. 
Business finance 
4. 
Marketing 
5. 
Business operations. 
Section 1: introduces the nature and types of business in an 
economy. Students will be encouraged to examine the interaction 
between businesses and the environment in which they operate. 
Sections 2–5: focuses on the main functional areas of business 
administration, finance, marketing and operations. 
While the five sections of content are listed as discrete topics, it is 
important for students to recognise that, because business is 
dynamic, these five areas interrelate. 
 
 
How content relates to examination papers 
 
 
The examination for Paper 1 and Paper 2 can draw on the 
knowledge and understanding from across the entire specification 
content. The five sections of business content interrelate and can 
be applied to real-life business scenarios that cover both small and 
large businesses. 
Paper 1 will focus on a small business of up to 49 employees that 
has a local/national market. 
Paper 2 will focus on a large business of more than 250 employees 
that has a multinational/global market. 
 
 
Pearson Edexcel International GCSE in Business – Specification 
Issue 1 – November 2016 © Pearson Education Limited 2016 
10 
1 – Business activity and influences on business 
 
Subject content 
What students need to learn 
1.1 
Business objectives 
1.1.1 
Businesses can have several objectives: 
• financial aims and objectives - survival, profit, 
sales, market share, financial security 
• non-financial aims and objectives - social 
objectives, personal satisfaction, challenge, 
independence and control. 
1.1.2 
Why business aims and objectives change as 
businesses evolve: 
• in response to market conditions, technology, 
performance, legislation, internal reasons. 
1.2 
Types of organisations 
1.2.1 
The main types of business ownership: 
• sole trader 
• partnerships 
• limited companies (private and public) 
• public corporations. 
1.2.2 
Characteristics relating to size: 
• concepts of risk, ownership and limited liability 
• public corporations – reasons for and against 
public ownership 
• ownership, control, sources of finance, use of 
profits, stakeholders and shareholders 
• appropriateness of different forms of ownership. 
1.2.3 
Different forms of business organisation: 
• franchises 
• social enterprises 
• multinationals. 
1.3 
Classification of 
businesses 
1.3.1 
Primary, secondary and tertiary activities: 
• primary sector – extracting raw materials from 
the earth 
• secondary sector – converting raw materials into 
finished or semi-finished goods 
• tertiary sector – provision of a wide variety 
of services. 
 
Pearson Edexcel International GCSE in Business – Specification – 
Issue 1 – November 2016 © Pearson Education Limited 2016 
11 
 
Subject content 
What students need to learn 
1.4 
Decisions on location 
1.4.1 
The main factors influencing location decisions and 
relocation of a business: 
• proximity to market, labour, materials and 
competitors 
• nature of the business activity 
• the impact of the internet on location decisions - 
e-commerce and/or fixed premises 
• legal controls and trade blocs. 
1.5 
Business and the 
international economy 
1.5.1 
Globalisation: 
• concept of globalisation 
• opportunities and threats of globalisation 
for businesses. 
1.5.2 
The importance and growth of multinationals: 
• benefits of a business becoming a multinational 
• benefits to a country and/or economy where a 
multinational company is located 
• possible drawbacks to a country and/or economy 
where a multinational is located. 
1.5.3 
Exchange rate calculation. 
1.5.4 
The impact of exchange rate changes: 
• on international competitiveness 
• on importers and exporters. 
1.6 
Government objectives 
and policies 
1.6.1 
Government spending: 
• to provide public service 
• taxation and constraints on public spending. 
1.6.2 
How governments can affect business activity: 
• infrastructure provision 
• legislation 
• trade policy - membership of trading blocs, tariffs. 
1.6.3 
The effect of interest rates on: 
• businesses 
• consumer spending. 
1.7 
External factors 
1.7.1 
The external factors affecting business decisions: 
• social 
• technological 
• environmental 
• political. 
 
Pearson Edexcel International GCSE in Business – Specification 
Issue 1 – November 2016 © Pearson Education Limited 2016 
12 
 
Subject content 
What students need to learn 
1.8 
What makes a 
business successful? 
1.8.1 
Measuring success in business: 
• revenue 
• market share 
• customer satisfaction 
• profit 
• growth 
• owner/shareholder satisfaction 
• employee satisfaction. 
1.8.2 
Reasons for business failure: 
• cash flow problems/lack of finance 
• not competitive 
• failure to adapt to changes in the market. 
 
 
Pearson Edexcel International GCSE in Business – Specification – 
Issue 1 – November 2016 © Pearson Education Limited 2016 
13 
2 – People in Business 
 
Subject content 
What students need to learn 
2.1 
Internal and external 
communication 
2.1.1 
Importance of good communication and the problems 
of ineffective communication: 
• the different communication methods used, 
including information technology (IT) and the 
benefits and limitations of each method. 
2.1.2 
Barriers to communication: 
• how communication barriers arise 
• problems of ineffective communication and how 
they can be removed. 
2.2 
Recruitment and 
selection process 
2.2.1 
Types of employment: 
• full-time 
• part-time 
• job share 
• casual/seasonal/temporary. 
2.2.2 
Recruitment documents: 
• job description 
• person specification 
• application form 
• curriculum vitae (CV)/résumé. 
2.2.3 
Internal and external recruitment: 
• job advertisement 
• shortlisting 
• interviewing. 
2.2.4 
Legal controls over employment and their effects: 
• equal opportunities – gender, race, disability, 
religion, sexual preference, age 
• minimum wage laws. 
2.3 
Training 
2.3.1 
Importance of training to a business and workers: 
• different types of training and the main purpose 
o induction 
o on-the-job 
o off-the-job 
• compliance with health and safety laws 
• benefits and limitations of training. 
 
 
Pearson Edexcel International GCSE in Business – Specification 
Issue 1 – November 2016 © Pearson Education Limited 2016 
14 
 
Subject content 
What students need to learn 
2.4 
Motivation and 
rewards 
2.4.1 
The importance of motivation in the workplace: 
• attracting employees, retaining employees, 
productivity 
• motivational theories of Herzberg, Maslow 
and Taylor. 
2.4.2 
How businesses motivate employees: 
• financial methods: 
o remuneration 
o bonus 
o commission 
o promotion 
o fringe benefits 
• non-financial methods: 
o job rotation 
o job enrichment 
o autonomy. 
2.5 
Organisation structure 
and employees 
2.5.1 
Organisational charts for different types of business: 
• hierarchical and flat 
• centralised and decentralised. 
2.5.2 
Roles and responsibilities of employees in terms of 
compliance and accountability: 
• span of control 
• chain of command 
• delegation. 
2.5.3 
The different functional areas within a business: 
• human resources – workforce planning, 
recruitment and selection, training, health and 
safety, staff welfare, employment issues, industrial 
relations, disciplinary and grievance procedure, 
dismissal, unfair dismissal and redundancy 
• finance – wages/salaries, cash-flow forecasting, 
budgets and accounting 
• marketing – market research, product planning, 
pricing, sales promotion, advertising, customer 
service, public relations, packaging and distribution 
• production – manufacturing the product, designing 
new products, quality control and stock control. 
 
 
Pearson Edexcel International GCSE in Business – Specification – 
Issue 1 – November 2016 © Pearson Education Limited 2016 
15 
3 – Business finance 
 
Subject content 
What students need to learn 
3.1 
Business finance – 
sources 
3.1.1 
The need for finance: 
• short-term needs 
• long-term needs 
• to start up or expand. 
3.1.2 
Internal sources of finance: 
• personal savings 
• retained profit 
• selling assets. 
3.1.3 
External sources of finance: 
• overdraft and trade payables 
• loan capital, share capital, including stock market 
flotation (public limited companies) 
• venture capital 
• crowdfunding. 
3.2 
Cash flow forecasting 
3.2.1 
The importance of cash to a business: 
• to pay suppliers, overheads and employees 
• to prevent business failure (insolvency) 
• the difference between cash and profit. 
3.2.2 
Calculation and interpretation of cash-flow forecasts: 
• cash inflows 
• cash outflows 
• net cash flow 
• opening and closing balances. 
3.3 
Costs and break-even 
analysis 
3.3.1 
The concept and calculation of: 
• revenue 
• fixed and variable costs 
• total costs 
• profit and loss. 
3.3.2 
The concept of break-even and calculation of  
break-even (from formula or diagram): 
• break-even level of output. 
3.3.3 
Interpretation of break-even charts: 
• the impact of changes in revenue and costs 
• limitations of break-even charts. 
 
 
Pearson Edexcel International GCSE in Business – Specification 
Issue 1 – November 2016 © Pearson Education Limited 2016 
16 
 
Subject content 
What students need to learn 
3.4 
Financial documents 
3.4.1 
The purpose of statements of comprehensive income: 
• main features – sales, cost of sales, gross profit, 
expenses, operating profit 
• the use of statements of comprehensive income in 
decision making (students will not be required to 
construct an income statement) 
• the nature of profit and its importance. 
3.4.2 
The purpose of statements of financial position: 
• main features – current and non-current assets, 
current and non-current liabilities, capital 
employed 
• interpret a statement of financial position 
(students will not be required to construct a 
statement of financial position). 
3.5 
Accounts analysis 
3.5.1 
Calculating and analysing accounting ratios: 
• gross profit margin 
• operating profit margin 
• markup 
• return on capital employed (ROCE) 
• current ratio 
• acid test ratio. 
 
(Formulae for use in this qualification can be found in 
Appendix 4. Students will be provided with these 
formulae in the examination.) 
3.5.2 
Liquidity: 
• the concept and importance of liquidity 
• comparisons with previous years and/or with other 
business organisations. 
3.5.3 
The use of financial documents: 
• assess the performance of the business 
• inform decision making. 
 
 
Pearson Edexcel International GCSE in Business – Specification – 
Issue 1 – November 2016 © Pearson Education Limited 2016 
17 
4 – Marketing 
 
Subject content 
What students need to learn 
4.1 
Market research 
4.1.1 
The purpose of market research: 
• to identify and understand customer needs 
• to identify gaps in the market 
• to reduce risk 
• to inform business decisions. 
4.1.2 
Methods of market research: 
• primary research: 
o survey 
o questionnaire 
o focus group 
o observation 
o test marketing 
• secondary research: 
o internet 
o market reports 
o government reports. 
4.1.3 
The use of data in market research: 
• qualitative and quantitative data 
• the role of social media in collecting market 
research data 
• the importance of the reliability of market 
research data. 
4.2 
The market 
4.2.1 
Importance of marketing: 
• satisfying customer needs 
• building customer relationships 
• keeping customer loyalty 
• market orientation and product orientation 
• market share and analysis 
• niche and mass marketing. 
4.2.2 
Responding to changes in the market: 
• changing customer needs 
• changing customer/consumer spending patterns 
• increased competition. 
 
Pearson Edexcel International GCSE in Business – Specification 
Issue 1 – November 2016 © Pearson Education Limited 2016 
18 
 
Subject content 
What students need to learn 
 
4.2.3 
How businesses use market segmentation to target 
customers: 
• identifying market segments: 
o location 
o demographics 
o lifestyle 
o income 
o age. 
4.3 
The marketing mix 
4.3.1 
Product: 
• development of a new product/service 
• the difference between goods and services 
• packaging and its importance 
• product life cycle – main phases and 
extension strategies 
• managing and reviewing the product portfolio 
(Boston matrix). 
4.3.2 
Price: 
• the main pricing strategies and when they might 
be applied: 
o cost plus 
o penetration 
o competition 
o skimming 
o promotional. 
4.3.3 
Place – distribution channels: 
• methods of distribution 
o retailers 
o e-tailers (e-commerce). 
4.3.4 
Promotion: 
• promotion strategies for different market 
segments: 
o advertising 
o sponsorship 
o product trials 
o special offers 
o branding 
• above the line and below the line 
promotion techniques 
• public relations – improving company image/brand 
 
Pearson Edexcel International GCSE in Business – Specification – 
Issue 1 – November 2016 © Pearson Education Limited 2016 
19 
 
Subject content 
What students need to learn 
 
• the use of technology in promotion: 
o targeted advertising online 
o viral advertising via social media 
o e-newsletters 
• the importance of a brand. 
 
Pearson Edexcel International GCSE in Business – Specification 
Issue 1 – November 2016 © Pearson Education Limited 2016 
20 
5 – Business operations 
 
Subject content 
What students need to learn 
5.1 
Economies and 
diseconomies of scale 
5.1.1 
Economies of scale: 
• internal (falling average total costs as 
output increases) 
• external (falling average total costs due to 
external factors). 
5.1.2 
Diseconomies of scale: 
• limits of growth. 
5.2 
Production 
5.2.1 
Production processes: 
• different types: 
o job 
o batch 
o flow 
• labour and capital intensive production 
• the impact of different types of production 
• calculation of productivity and the impact of 
productivity improvements. 
5.2.2 
Principles of lean production: 
• just-in-time (JIT) 
• Kaizen 
• the importance of using resources effectively. 
5.2.3 
Impact of technology in production: 
• use of robotics 
• balancing cost, productivity, quality and flexibility. 
5.3 
Factors of production 
5.3.1 
Changing relationships between enterprise, capital, 
land, and labour: 
• difference between capital-intensive and 
labour-intensive activities. 
5.4 
Quality 
5.4.1 
The concept of quality and its importance in: 
• the production of goods and the provision 
of services: 
o quality control 
o total quality management (TQM) 
• allowing a business to gain a competitive 
advantage. 
 
Pearson Edexcel International GCSE in Business – Specification – 
Issue 1 – November 2016 © Pearson Education Limited 2016 
21 
3 Assessment information 
Assessment requirements 
Paper number and 
unit title 
Level Assessment information 
Number of raw 
marks allocated 
in the paper 
Paper 1: 
Investigating small 
businesses 
1/2 
Examination of 1 hour and 30 
minutes, set and marked by 
Pearson. 
The paper is weighted at 50% of 
the qualification. 
Single tier of entry. 
Students may use a calculator. 
80 
Paper 2: 
Investigating large 
businesses 
1/2 
Examination of 1 hour and 30 
minutes, set and marked by 
Pearson. 
The paper is weighted at 50% of 
the qualification. 
Single tier of entry. 
Students may use a calculator. 
80 
 
 
Pearson Edexcel International GCSE in Business – Specification 
Issue 1 – November 2016 © Pearson Education Limited 2016 
22 
Assessment objectives and weightings 
 
 
% in 
International 
GCSE 
AO1 
Recall, select and communicate knowledge and 
understanding of business terms, concepts and issues 
27–28* 
AO2 
Apply knowledge and understanding using appropriate 
business terms, concepts, theories and calculations 
effectively in specific contexts 
38–39 
AO3 
Select, organise and interpret business information from 
sources to investigate and analyse issues 
22–23 
AO4 
Evaluate business information to make reasoned 
judgements and draw conclusions 
11–12 
* A maximum of 15% of total qualification marks will assess knowledge recall. 
Relationship of assessment objectives to units 
 
Unit number 
Assessment objective 
AO1 
AO2 
AO3 
AO4 
Component 1 
13.7% 
19.4% 
11.3% 
5.6% 
Component 2 
13.7% 
19.4% 
11.3% 
5.6% 
Total for 
International GCSE 
27–28% 
38–39% 
22–23% 
11–12% 
 
All components will be available for assessment from June 2019. 
 
Pearson Edexcel International GCSE in Business – Specification – 
Issue 1 – November 2016 © Pearson Education Limited 2016 
23 
4 Administration and general information 
Entries 
Details of how to enter students for the examinations for this qualification can be found in 
our International Information Manual. A copy is made available to all examinations officers 
and it is available on our website. 
Students should be advised that, if they take two qualifications in the same subject, 
colleges, universities and employers are very likely to take the view that they have achieved 
only one of the two GCSEs/International GCSEs. Students or their advisers who have any 
doubts about subject combinations should check with the institution to which they wish to 
progress before embarking on their programmes. 
Access arrangements, reasonable adjustments, special consideration 
and malpractice 
Equality and fairness are central to our work. Our Equality Policy requires all students to 
have equal opportunity to access our qualifications and assessments, and our qualifications 
to be awarded in a way that is fair to every student. 
We are committed to making sure that: 
• students with a protected characteristic (as defined by the UK Equality Act 2010) are not, 
when they are undertaking one of our qualifications, disadvantaged in comparison to 
students who do not share that characteristic 
• all students achieve the recognition they deserve for undertaking a qualification and that 
this achievement can be compared fairly to the achievement of their peers. 
Language of assessment 
Assessment of this qualification will only be available in English. All student work must be 
in English. 
We recommend that students are able to read and write in English at level B2 of the 
Common European Framework of Reference for Languages (CEFR). 
 
Pearson Edexcel International GCSE in Business – Specification 
Issue 1 – November 2016 © Pearson Education Limited 2016 
24 
Access arrangements 
Access arrangements are agreed before an assessment. They allow students with special 
educational needs, disabilities or temporary injuries to: 
• access the assessment 
• show what they know and can do without changing the demands of the assessment. 
The intention behind an access arrangement is to meet the particular needs of an individual 
student with a disability without affecting the integrity of the assessment. Access 
arrangements are the principal way in which awarding bodies comply with the duty under 
the Equality Act 2010 to make ‘reasonable adjustments’. 
Access arrangements should always be processed at the start of the course. Students will 
then know what is available and have the access arrangement(s) in place for assessment. 
Reasonable adjustments 
The Equality Act 2010 requires an awarding organisation to make reasonable adjustments 
where a student with a disability would be at a substantial disadvantage in undertaking an 
assessment. The awarding organisation is required to take reasonable steps to overcome 
that disadvantage. 
A reasonable adjustment for a particular student may be unique to that individual and 
therefore might not be in the list of available access arrangements. 
Whether an adjustment will be considered reasonable will depend on a number of factors, 
including: 
• the needs of the student with the disability 
• the effectiveness of the adjustment 
• the cost of the adjustment; and 
• the likely impact of the adjustment on the student with the disability and other students. 
An adjustment will not be approved if it involves unreasonable costs to the awarding 
organisation, timeframes or affects the security or integrity of the assessment. This is 
because the adjustment is not ‘reasonable’. 
Special consideration 
Special consideration is a post-examination adjustment to a student's mark or grade to 
reflect temporary injury, illness or other indisposition at the time of the examination/ 
assessment, which has had, or is reasonably likely to have had, a material effect on a 
candidate’s ability to take an assessment or demonstrate his or her level of attainment in an 
assessment. 
Further information 
Please see our website for further information about how to apply for access arrangements 
and special consideration. 
For further information about access arrangements, reasonable adjustments and special 
consideration please refer to the JCQ website: www.jcq.org.uk 
 
Pearson Edexcel International GCSE in Business – Specification – 
Issue 1 – November 2016 © Pearson Education Limited 2016 
25 
Malpractice 
Candidate malpractice 
Candidate malpractice refers to any act by a candidate that compromises or seeks to 
compromise the process of assessment or which undermines the integrity of the 
qualifications or the validity of results/certificates. 
Candidate malpractice in examinations must be reported to Pearson using a JCQ Form M1 
(available at www.jcq.org.uk/exams-office/malpractice). The form can be emailed to 
pqsmalpractice@pearson.com or posted to: Investigations Team, Pearson, 
190 High Holborn, London, WC1V 7BH. Please provide as much information and supporting 
documentation as possible. Note that the final decision regarding appropriate sanctions lies 
with Pearson. 
Failure to report malpractice constitutes staff or centre malpractice. 
Staff/centre malpractice 
Staff and centre malpractice includes both deliberate malpractice and maladministration of 
our qualifications. As with candidate malpractice, staff and centre malpractice is any act that 
compromises or seeks to compromise the process of assessment or which undermines the 
integrity of the qualifications or the validity of results/certificates. 
All cases of suspected staff malpractice and maladministration must be reported 
immediately, before any investigation is undertaken by the centre, to Pearson on 
a JCQ Form M2(a) (available at www.jcq.org.uk/exams-office/malpractice). 
The form, supporting documentation and as much information as possible can be emailed to 
pqsmalpractice@pearson.com or posted to: Investigations Team, Pearson, 
190 High Holborn, London, WC1V 7BH. Note that the final decision regarding 
appropriate sanctions lies with Pearson. 
Failure to report malpractice itself constitutes malpractice. 
More-detailed guidance on malpractice can be found in the latest version of the document 
JCQ General and vocational qualifications Suspected Malpractice in Examinations and 
Assessments, available at www.jcq.org.uk/exams-office/malpractice 
Awarding and reporting 
The International GCSE qualification will be graded and certificated on a nine-grade scale 
from 9 to 1 using the total subject mark where 9 is the highest grade. Individual 
components are not graded. The first certification opportunity for the Pearson Edexcel 
International GCSE in Business will be in 2019. Students whose level of achievement is 
below the minimum judged by Pearson to be of sufficient standard to be recorded on a 
certificate will receive an unclassified U result. 
 
Pearson Edexcel International GCSE in Business – Specification 
Issue 1 – November 2016 © Pearson Education Limited 2016 
26 
Student recruitment and progression 
Pearson’s policy concerning recruitment to our qualifications is that: 
• they must be available to anyone who is capable of reaching the required standard 
• they must be free from barriers that restrict access and progression 
• equal opportunities exist for all students. 
Prior learning and other requirements 
There are no prior learning or other requirements for this qualification. 
Progression 
Students can progress from this qualification to: 
• International AS and A Levels in Business and other subjects 
• vocational qualifications, such as BTEC Nationals. 
 
Pearson Edexcel International GCSE in Business – Specification – 
Issue 1 – November 2016 © Pearson Education Limited 2016 
27 
Appendices 
Appendix 1: Codes 
29 
Appendix 2: Command word taxonomy 
31 
Appendix 3: Quantitative skills 
33 
Appendix 4: Formulae 
35 
Appendix 5: Calculators 
37 
Appendix 6: Glossary of International Accounting Standards  
(IAS) terminology 
39 
Appendix 7: Pearson World Class Qualification design principles 
41 
Appendix 8: Transferable skills 
43 
Appendix 9: Glossary 
45 
 
Pearson Edexcel International GCSE in Business – Specification 
Issue 1 – November 2016 © Pearson Education Limited 2016 
28 
 
 
Pearson Edexcel International GCSE in Business – Specification 
Issue 1 – November 2016 © Pearson Education Limited 2016 
29 
Appendix 1: Codes 
 
Type of code 
Use of code 
Code 
Subject codes 
The subject code is used by centres to 
cash in the entry for a qualification. 
International GCSE – 
4BS1 
Paper codes 
These codes are provided for 
information. Students may need to be 
entered for individual papers. 
Paper 1: 4BS1/01 
Paper 2: 4BS1/02 
 
Pearson Edexcel International GCSE in Business – Specification 
Issue 1 – November 2016 © Pearson Education Limited 2016 
30 
 
Pearson Edexcel International GCSE in Business – Specification 
Issue 1 – November 2016 © Pearson Education Limited 2016 
31 
Appendix 2: Command word taxonomy 
The table below lists the command words that may be used in question papers for the 
Pearson Edexcel International GCSE in Business, it also gives an outline of what each type of 
question requires students to do. 
 
Command word 
This type of question will require students to: 
(Multiple-choice 
question) 
select one or more correct answer from a choice of 
answers. These questions test recall of knowledge from the 
specification content or require a calculation to reach the 
correct answer 
Define 
define a term from the specification content 
Give 
give an answer testing recall of knowledge from the 
specification content 
State 
give an answer, no longer than a sentence, referring to a 
piece of contextual information from which they must select 
the answer 
Identify 
select the correct answer from reading a graph or table  
of data 
Calculate 
use mathematical skills to reach the answer, based on given 
data. Calculators may be used and workings should 
be given 
Complete the 
table 
work out the values missing from the presented table 
of data 
Outline 
give two linked points about a business concept or issue, 
placed in context in the question 
Explain 
give a statement of fact, with two further expansion points. 
These may expand on each other, or both from the same 
fact. There is no context in these questions 
Analyse 
write an extended answer, requiring expansion and 
exploration of a business concept or issue. The answer will 
be placed in context by the question 
Justify 
write an extended answer, using information provided in 
order to recommend one of two options to a business 
Evaluate 
write an extended answer, using knowledge of specification 
content to reach a supported conclusion about a business 
situation. 
 
Examples of how these command words are used in Paper 1 and Paper 2 are given in the 
Pearson Edexcel International GCSE in Business Sample Assessment Materials for this 
qualification. 
 
Pearson Edexcel International GCSE in Business – Specification 
Issue 1 – November 2016 © Pearson Education Limited 2016 
32 
 
Pearson Edexcel International GCSE in Business – Specification 
Issue 1 – November 2016 © Pearson Education Limited 2016 
33 
Appendix 3: Quantitative skills 
The list below states the range and extent of mathematical skills that students are required 
to learn for this qualification. Students must be able to draw on the knowledge and 
understanding learned from the subject content to apply these skills to relevant 
business contexts. 
The level of mathematics content in the question papers will be equivalent to upper 
secondary mathematics. 
Calculation 
Calculations in a business context, including: 
• percentages and percentage changes 
• averages 
• revenue, costs and profit 
• gross profit margin and net profit margin ratios 
• average rate of return 
• cash-flow forecasts, including total costs, total revenue and net cash flow. 
Interpretation 
Interpretation and use of quantitative data in business contexts to support, inform and 
justify business decisions, including: 
• information from graphs and charts 
• profitability ratios (gross profit margin and net profit margin) 
• financial data, including profit and loss, average rate of return and 
cash-flow forecasts 
• marketing data, including market research data 
• market data, including market share, changes in costs and changes in prices. 
These quantitative skills will be assessed in both Paper 1 and Paper 2, totalling 10% of the 
marks available for the qualification. Questions involving quantitative skills will always be in 
a business context. 
These skills will be sampled in the question papers but all will be covered over the lifetime of 
the qualification. 
 
Pearson Edexcel International GCSE in Business – Specification 
Issue 1 – November 2016 © Pearson Education Limited 2016 
34 
 
Pearson Edexcel International GCSE in Business – Specification 
Issue 1 – November 2016 © Pearson Education Limited 2016 
35 
Appendix 4: Formulae 
The list below gives formulae for use in this qualification. Formulae will be provided in the 
examinations for Paper 1 and Paper 2. 
 
Gross profit margin 
Gross profit = revenue − cost of sales 
Gross profit margin = 
gross profit 
× 100 
revenue 
 
Operating profit margin 
Operating profit = gross profit − other operating expenses 
Operating profit margin = 
operating profit 
× 100 
revenue 
 
Markup 
Markup = 
profit per item 
× 100 
cost per item 
 
Return on capital employed (ROCE) 
ROCE = 
operating profit 
× 100 
capital employed 
 
Current ratio 
Current ratio = 
current assets 
current liabilities 
 
Acid test ratio 
Acid test ratio = 
current assets − inventory 
current liabilities 
 
 
Pearson Edexcel International GCSE in Business – Specification 
Issue 1 – November 2016 © Pearson Education Limited 2016 
36 
 
 
Pearson Edexcel International GCSE in Business – Specification 
Issue 1 – November 2016 © Pearson Education Limited 2016 
37 
Appendix 5: Calculators 
Students may use a calculator in assessments for this qualification. Centres are responsible 
for making sure that calculators used by their students meet the requirements highlighted in 
the table below. 
Students must be familiar with these requirements before their assessments begin. 
 
Calculators must be: 
• of a size suitable for use on a desk 
• either battery or solar powered 
• free of lids, cases and covers that 
contain printed instructions or 
formulae. 
Calculators must not: 
• be designed or adapted to offer any 
of these facilities: 
– 
language translators 
– 
symbolic algebraic manipulation 
– 
symbolic differentiation or 
integration 
– 
communication with other 
machines or the internet 
• be borrowed from another candidate 
during an examination for any 
reason 
• store retrievable, including: 
– 
databanks 
– 
dictionaries 
– 
mathematical formulae 
– 
text. 
The candidate is responsible for the 
following: 
• the calculator’s power supply 
• the calculator’s working condition 
• clearing anything stored in the 
calculator. 
 
Pearson Edexcel International GCSE in Business – Specification 
Issue 1 – November 2016 © Pearson Education Limited 2016 
38 
 
Pearson Edexcel International GCSE in Business – Specification 
Issue 1 – November 2016 © Pearson Education Limited 2016 
39 
Appendix 6: Glossary of International Accounting 
Standards (IAS) terminology 
The following is a glossary of the comparison between the International Accounting 
Standards (IAS) terminology and the UK GAAP 
(Generally Accepted Accounting Practice in the UK) terminology. 
The assessments for the Pearson Edexcel International GCSE in Business will use 
IAS terminology only. 
 
Previously used UK GAAP terminology 
IAS terminology 
Final accounts 
Financial statements 
 
 
Trading and profit and loss account 
Statement of profit or loss 
Sales 
Revenue 
Purchases 
Raw materials/ordinary goods purchased 
Cost of goods sold 
Cost of sales 
Stock 
Inventory 
Work in progress 
Work in progress 
Gross profit 
Gross profit 
Sundry expenses 
Other operating expenses 
Sundry income 
Other operating income 
Interest receivable 
Investment revenues/finance income 
Interest payable 
Finance costs 
Net profit 
Profit for the year 
 
 
Balance sheet 
Statement of financial position 
 
 
Fixed assets 
Non-current assets 
Land and buildings 
Property 
Plant and equipment 
Plant and equipment 
Investments 
Investment property 
Goodwill etc. 
Intangible assets 
 
 
Pearson Edexcel International GCSE in Business – Specification 
Issue 1 – November 2016 © Pearson Education Limited 2016 
40 
 
Previously used UK GAAP terminology 
IAS terminology 
Current assets 
Current assets 
Stock 
Inventory 
Stocktake 
Inventory count 
Debtors 
Trade receivables 
Prepayments 
Other receivables 
Bank and cash 
Cash 
 
 
Current liabilities/creditors: amounts 
due within 12 months 
Current liabilities 
Creditors 
Trade payables 
Accruals 
Other payables 
Loans repayable within 12 months 
Bank overdraft and loans 
 
 
Long-term liabilities/creditors: amounts 
falling due after 12 months 
Non-current liabilities 
Loans repayable after 12 months 
Bank (and other) loans 
Net book value 
Carry-over 
 
 
Capital 
Capital or equity 
Share capital 
Share capital 
 
 
Pearson Edexcel International GCSE in Business – Specification 
Issue 1 – November 2016 © Pearson Education Limited 2016 
41 
Appendix 7: Pearson World Class Qualification 
design principles 
Pearson’s World Class Qualification design principles mean that all Edexcel qualifications are 
developed to be rigorous, demanding, inclusive 
and empowering. 
 
 
 
We work collaboratively to gain approval from an external panel of educational thought 
leaders and assessment experts from across the globe. This is to ensure that Edexcel 
qualifications are globally relevant, represent world-class best practice in qualification and 
assessment design, maintain a consistent standard and support learner progression in 
today’s fast-changing world. 
Pearson’s Expert Panel for World-class Qualifications is chaired by 
Sir Michael Barber, a leading authority on education systems and reform. He is joined by a 
wide range of key influencers with expertise in education and employability. 
‘I’m excited to be in a position to work with the global leaders in curriculum and assessment 
to take a fresh look at what young people need to know and be able to do in the 21st 
century, and to consider how we can give them the opportunity to access that sort of 
education.’ Sir Michael Barber. 
Endorsement from Pearson’s Expert Panel for World-class Qualifications 
for International GCSE development processes 
‘We were chosen, either because of our expertise in the UK education system or because of 
our experience in reforming qualifications in other systems around the world as diverse as 
Singapore, Hong Kong, Australia and a number of countries across Europe.’ 
 
Pearson Edexcel International GCSE in Business – Specification 
Issue 1 – November 2016 © Pearson Education Limited 2016 
42 
We have guided Pearson through what we judge to be a rigorous world-class qualification 
development process that has included: 
• extensive international comparability of subject content against the highest-performing 
jurisdictions in the world 
• benchmarking assessments against UK and overseas providers to ensure that they are at 
the right level of demand 
• establishing External Subject Advisory Groups, drawing on independent subject-specific 
expertise to challenge and validate our qualifications. 
Importantly, we have worked to ensure that the content and learning is future oriented, and 
that the design has been guided by Pearson’s Efficacy Framework. This is a structured, 
evidence-based process which means that learner outcomes have been at the heart of this 
development throughout. 
We understand that ultimately it is excellent teaching that is the key factor to a learner’s 
success in education but as a result of our work as a panel we are confident that we have 
supported the development of Edexcel International GCSE qualifications that are outstanding 
for their coherence, thoroughness and attention to detail and can be regarded as 
representing world-class best practice. 
 
Sir Michael Barber (Chair) 
Chief Education Advisor 
Pearson plc 
Professor Sing Kong Lee 
Professor, National Institute of Education in 
Singapore 
Dr Peter Hill 
Former Chief Executive ACARA 
Bahram Bekhradnia 
President, Higher Education Policy Institute 
Professor Jonathan Osborne 
Stanford University 
Dame Sally Coates 
Director of Academies (South), United 
Learning Trust 
Professor Dr Ursula Renold 
Federal Institute of Technology, 
Switzerland 
Professor Bob Schwartz 
Harvard Graduate School of Education 
Professor Janice Kay 
Provost, University of Exeter 
Jane Beine 
Head of Partner Development, John Lewis 
Partnership 
Jason Holt 
CEO, Holts Group 
 
 
 
Pearson Edexcel International GCSE in Business – Specification 
Issue 1 – November 2016 © Pearson Education Limited 2016 
43 
Appendix 8: Transferable skills 
The need for transferable skills 
In recent years, higher education institutions and employers have consistently flagged the 
need for students to develop a range of transferable skills to enable them to respond with 
confidence to the demands of undergraduate study and the world of work. 
The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) defines skills, or 
competencies, as ‘the bundle of knowledge, attributes and capacities that can be learned 
and that enable individuals to successfully and consistently perform an activity or task and 
can be built upon and extended through learning.’[1] 
To support the design of our qualifications, the Pearson Research Team selected and 
evaluated seven global 21st-century skills frameworks. Following on from this process, we 
identified the National Research Council’s (NRC) framework [2] as the most evidence-based 
and robust skills framework, and have used this as a basis for our adapted skills framework. 
The framework includes cognitive, intrapersonal skills and interpersonal skills. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The skills have been interpreted for this specification to ensure they are appropriate for the 
subject. All of the skills listed are evident or accessible in the teaching, learning and/or 
assessment of the qualification. Some skills are directly assessed. Pearson materials will 
support you in identifying these skills and developing these skills in students. 
The table on the next page sets out the framework and gives an indication of the skills that 
can be found in business and indicates the interpretation of the skill in this area. A full 
subject interpretation of each skill, with mapping to show opportunities for students’ 
development is provided on the subject pages of our website: qualifications.pearson.com 
                                           
 
 
1 OECD – Better Skills, Better Jobs, Better Lives: A Strategic Approach to Skills Policies (OECD Publishing, 2012) 
http://skills.oecd.org/documents/OECDSkillsStrategyFINALENG.pdf 
2 Koenig J A – Assessing 21st Century Skills: Summary of a Workshop (National Research Council, 2011) 
 
Pearson Edexcel International GCSE in Business – Specification 
Issue 1 – November 2016 © Pearson Education Limited 2016 
44 
 
Cognitive skills 
Cognitive processes 
and strategies 
• Critical thinking 
• Problem solving 
• Analysis 
• Reasoning 
• Interpretation 
• Decision making 
• Adaptive learning 
• Executive function 
Creativity 
• Creativity 
• Innovation 
Intrapersonal skills 
Intellectual 
openness 
• Adaptability 
• Personal and social 
responsibility 
• Continuous learning 
• Intellectual interest 
and curiosity 
Work ethic/ 
conscientiousness 
• Initiative 
• Self-direction 
• Responsibility 
• Perseverance 
• Productivity 
• Self-regulation 
(metacognition, 
forethought, 
reflection) 
• Ethics 
• Integrity 
Positive core 
self-evaluation 
• Self-monitoring/ 
self-evaluation/ 
self-reinforcement 
Interpersonal skills 
Teamwork and 
collaboration 
• Communication 
• Collaboration 
• Teamwork 
• Cooperation 
• Interpersonal skills 
Leadership 
• Leadership 
• Responsibility 
• Assertive 
communication 
• Self-presentation 
Reasoning for 
Business 
Making deductions and 
drawing conclusions 
from a variety of 
information sources 
Initiative for Business 
Researching real-life 
business articles from 
newspapers and online 
Teamwork for 
Business 
Working with other 
students on business 
based problem solving 
activities/business 
strategy exercises   
 
Pearson Edexcel International GCSE in Business – Specification 
Issue 1 – November 2016 © Pearson Education Limited 2016 
45 
Appendix 9: Glossary 
 
Term 
Definition 
Assessment 
objectives 
The requirements that students need to meet to succeed in the 
qualification. Each assessment objective has a unique focus, which 
is then targeted in examinations or coursework. Assessment 
objectives may be assessed individually or in combination. 
External 
assessment 
An examination that is held at the same time and place in a 
global region. 
JCQ 
Joint Council for Qualifications. This is a group of UK examination 
boards that develop policy related to the administration of 
examinations. 
Linear 
Qualifications that are linear have all assessments at the end of a 
course of study. It is not possible to take one assessment earlier in 
the course of study. 
Raw marks 
Raw marks are the actual marks that students achieve when taking 
an assessment. When calculating an overall grade raw marks often 
need to be converted so that it is possible to see the proportionate 
achievement of a student across all units of study. 
 
Db061116Z:\LT\PD\INTERNATIONAL GCSES\9781446942765_INT_GCSE_BUSINESS\9781446942765_INT_GCSE_BUSINESS.DOC.1–50/0 
For information about Edexcel, BTEC or LCCI qualifications  
visit qualifications.pearson.com
Edexcel is a registered trademark of Pearson Education Limited
Pearson Education Limited. Registered in England and Wales No. 872828 
Registered Office: 80 Strand, London WC2R 0RL 
VAT Reg No GB 278 537121
Getty Images: Alex Belmonlinsky
